clx enarres.

w& of Morini. But Ihelieve our only authority 101 so doing

Μ’ isa dictum of Richord of 0100000100, and Iwill not
insult the reader by quoting a patent forgery. I allude
10 Bertram’s elever febrientium merely to shew the render
that I have not overlooked it.''

’ Pcaay dyalopoeolio, under Richard of ciramea-r (vol.
xix„ 1841, p. 510): “The discovery of this treatise may
he regarded as an era in tha study 01 British and Roman-
British antiquitiea The itinerary contains 18 journcys
which Richard says he compiled from certain fragments
written hya Roman general and from Ptolemy and other
authors ; he mentions a hundred and seventysix statione
(while Antoninus has only 113), some of them a con·
siderable distance north of the wall of Severus, besides
which there are numerous chasma which shew that many

’ names have been lost or obliterated. The credit end
fidelity 01 Richard hasbeen attacked‚ but with little
success3 for wherever the subject has admitted of local
investigation, the result has added to the estimation of
his authenticity.’'

⁴ In therevised edition of this Cyclopoedo'assrhyruphy, vol.
v.‚ (not dated, but the copy which I use was apparently
printed in 1887 or 1868), col. sais a much mors sceptioal
account. “The discovery of this treatise was regarded
asan era in the study 01 British and Roman-Eritish
antiquities. The credit and fidelity 01 this work have
heen attacked, but they have been defended hya refer-
ence to local investigatam the result 01 which has in
some instanoes been favourahle 1ο the authenticityof the
work. On the other hand itis often extremely incorrect,
and the account which Bertram gives 01 the manuscript
. . . is far from satisfactory. What has become 01110
eripiant 0001000101 from which he professes to have
made the oopy he sent to Stukeley does not appear to be
known; itis not in the Royal Library et Oopenhagen
where it was expected to be found. Many good scholare

 

